---
title: Solidus v2.9
date: 2019-07-16
tags: Solidus
author: Solidus Core Team
---

- <a class="button" href="https://github.com/solidusio/solidus/releases/tag/v2.9.0">2.9.0 on GitHub</a>
- <a class="button button-secondary" href="https://rubygems.org/gems/solidus/versions/2.9.0">2.9.0 on RubyGems</a>

### Announcing Solidus v2.9

Thanks to all contributors, testers, and users who made this release possible.

This version's support will end in 18 months: 2021-01-16.

### What's changed?

Full changelog can be found on our
[GitHub repository](https://github.com/solidusio/solidus/blob/7f35c94a624be1a78b659500ee1af5dbd4bf63c2/CHANGELOG.md#solidus-290-2019-07-16)
but here's a list of major changes:

**Admin UI restyle**

Solidus has a fresh Admin UI! Your eyes will thank you and this would not
impact your store but if you added some custom CSS that matches the old Admin
UI, you probaly have to make some change at it now.

**New REST API documentation**

Our REST API is now documented using the Open API Specification. The
documentation is part of the repository and published on
https://solidus.docs.stoplight.io/.

**Added Spree::Event**

Solidus now includes an event library that allows to use different adapters.
The default adapter is based on `ActiveSupport::Notifications` library.
Events should allow developers to customize and extend Solidus behavior
more easily by simply subscribing to certain events. Sending emails may be a
simple use case for this new feature.

**Attachment adapters**

This is the first step to support other files attachment libraries since
Paperclip is no more maintained. Solidus will release the ActiveStorage
support in core in the next releases or via an extension.

**Add more fields to the API json response for shipments**

This change adds more fields to the API endpoints that return a shipment
object. We had two partials to represent shipments:
[`small`](https://github.com/solidusio/solidus/blob/e7260a27a7c292908a835f374d5ba73fe7284cd0/api/app/views/spree/api/shipments/_big.json.jbuilder)
and
[`big`](https://github.com/solidusio/solidus/blob/e7260a27a7c292908a835f374d5ba73fe7284cd0/api/app/views/spree/api/shipments/_small.json.jbuilder)
but some of the `small` fields were not present in the `big` partial. Now they
are aligned but users that were using those partials could notice some
difference in how the API endpoints involved respond.

**Deprecate reset_spree_preferences in test**

Changing preferences and resetting them after any example is not a good
practice and it's error-prone. The new standard is stubbing preferences and
it's enforced with a deprecation of reset_spree_preferences. This way we can
gradually align stores and extensions.

**Changed payment method partials name convention**

Payment methods partials filename are now expected to be the
Spree::PaymentMethod class underscored instead of downcased. This means that,
for example, for `Spree::PaymentMethod::StoreCredit` the corresponding partial
files would be named `_store_credit` and not `_storecredit`. If you overrode
one of the following files, you should rename it now:

```
api/app/views/spree/api/payments/source_views/_storecredit.json.jbuilder → api/app/views/spree/api/payments/source_views/_store_credit.json.jbuilder
backend/app/views/spree/admin/payments/source_forms/_storecredit.html.erb → backend/app/views/spree/admin/payments/source_forms/_store_credit.html.erb
backend/app/views/spree/admin/payments/source_views/_storecredit.html.erb → backend/app/views/spree/admin/payments/source_views/_store_credit.html.erb
```

Also, if you've built your own payment method you may need to change the
corresponding partials filename.

**Fix non thread safe gateway initialization**

`ActiveMerchant::Billing::Base.mode` is a global `ActiveMerchant` preference
and we were setting it into each payment gateway initialization. This means
that if the last instantiated payment method's mode was different from the
other ones, the last one's mode will be applied to all of them. To fix this
issue we changed how we tell ActiveMerchant that one gateway is in test mode.
Please double check your production configuration for payment methods: only
payment methods where `server` preference set to production and `test_mode`
turned off will work in "production" mode.

**Remove name from default ransackable attributes**

Ransack needs a whitelist of attributes to perform a search against for security
reasons. We used to whitelist `id` and `name` for all the models but not all
models have the `name` attribute/column making ransack search raise an error.
If you have a custom model and you are performing search against its `name`,
now you have to manually add it to the ransackable whitelist for that resource.

**Changes to how returns are processed from a return item**

It you are programmatically calling `Spree::ReturnItem#process_inventory_unit!`
please notice that it doesn't automatically process return anymore. To remove
the deprecation warning you have to set an attribute on your `return_item`
instance before calling `process_inventory_unit!`:

```ruby
return_item.skip_customer_return_processing = true
return_item.process_inventory_unit!
# here you should process the customer return manually
```
