---
title: Solidus v3.0
date: 2021-04-20
tags: Solidus
author: Solidus Core Team
cover_image: /blog/2021/04/20/solidus-v3-0/solidus_v3_0.jpg
---

- <a class="button" href="https://github.com/solidusio/solidus/releases/tag/v3.0.0">3.0.0 on GitHub</a>
- <a class="button button-secondary" href="https://rubygems.org/gems/solidus/versions/3.0.0">3.0.0 on RubyGems</a>

We've just released Solidus `v3.0.0`!

One of the primary goals that drives the development of Solidus is allowing easy upgrades.

Easy upgrades allow teams that use Solidus to take advantage of the latest platform improvements, but it's equally crucial
for faciliating community contribution: using a recent version of Solidus lets teams easily contribute to the platform.
Due to this exchange, Solidus mirrors what's really needed by its users as closely as possible and the whole
community benefits from new features and fixes.

Solidus `v3.0` is a release that respects this mindset. In fact, Solidus `v3.0` is nearly identical to the last `v2.11.x` version,
with the only difference that the new one doesn't have the code that we deprecated during the `v2.x` lifecycle: if
you don't see deprecation messages in your application logs, you should be good to upgrade your store with minimal effort.

Despite the easy upgrade path, there are some relevant things to consider when upgrading:

### We do not require all of Rails by default anymore

By requiring `rails/all`, Solidus was loading a bunch of unnecessary code that was probably consuming more memory than necessary.
This change only loads what's strictly needed and allows stores that want to cherry-pick certain parts of Rails to benefit from the more
attentive choice.

### Active Storage by Default

Both Solidus `v2.11` and Solidus `v3.0` come with full support for Rails `6.1`, `6.0` and `5.2`. With Solidus `v3.0` as default on new stores,
we ship fully working `Active Storage` support. In future versions, we will remove the `Paperclip` dependency because `Active Storage` is
becoming the new standard for Rails developers.

This change won't impact your existing store as long as you keep using `Paperclip` as the attachment module with:

```ruby
Spree::Config.image_attachment_module = 'Spree::Image::PaperclipAttachment'
Spree::Config.taxon_attachment_module = 'Spree::Taxon::PaperclipAttachment'
```

### Discarded Paranoia

We finally completed the heroic work started by [John Hawthorn](https://github.com/jhawthorn) to remove `paranoia` and introduce a new gem for
soft-deleting records. This gem is called [discard](https://github.com/jhawthorn/discard) and provides a more explicit interface when dealing
with record deletion. After a deprecation cycle, this is now the only supported way to soft-delete records in the codebase. No more surprises when deleting or destroying records!

### Unified Name in Address

We removed all usage of split `firstname` and `lastname` for addresses since
[this concept is not valid in all cultures around the world](https://www.kalzumeus.com/2010/06/17/falsehoods-programmers-believe-about-names/).
Now we have a single field in the system called `name`.

In the last version of Solidus in the `v2.x` series, we added the `name` attribute to the database and started to populate it with the
combination of `firstname` and `lastname`. We also provided a rake task to populate the `name` field for existing records, in order to
make the database consistent, and ready to switch `Spree::Config.use_combined_first_and_last_name_in_address` to `true`, which will be
the only supported value in Solidus `v3.0`.

We suggest migrating to this new schema before the upgrade to `v3.0`. You can follow this approach:

1. Upgrade to the latest `v2.11.x` version
2. Run  `bin/rails railties:install:migrations` and `bin/rails db:migrate`
3. Run the dedicated rake task [`bin/rails solidus:upgrade:two_point_eleven`](https://github.com/solidusio/solidus/blob/09c53ee00ee25450e76b474d713934b087af2bed/core/lib/tasks/upgrade.rake) that will migrate the address fields
4. Switch the `Spree::Config.use_combined_first_and_last_name_in_address` preference to `true`

This process will make your application behave exactly as it will with `v3.0`, which only removes the support for that preference being `false`.

### Removed preferences

We removed some preferences that were controlling deprecated behaviors. You probably already changed their value to remove the deprecations from your logs but when upgrading, be sure they are not used in your codebase since they do not exist anymore. They are:

- `Spree::Config.raise_with_invalid_currency`
- `Spree::Config.redirect_back_on_unauthorized`
- `Spree::Config.run_order_validations_on_order_updater`
- `Spree::Config.use_legacy_order_state_machine`
- `Spree::Config.use_legacy_store_credit_reimbursement_category_name`
- `Spree::Config.consider_actionless_promotion_active`
- `Spree::Config.use_legacy_address_state_validator`
- `Spree::Config.use_combined_first_and_last_name_in_address`

Please take a look at the [CHANGELOG](https://github.com/solidusio/solidus/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md) for a detailed list of changes.

## Troubles upgrading?

If you have any issue when upgrading, you can find support on
[this thread on GitHub Discussion](https://github.com/solidusio/solidus/discussions/4030) or in the `#support` channel of our
[Slack Workspace](http://slack.solidus.io/).

## Thanks!

Thanks to all code contributors that made Pull Requests during the 2.x lifecycle, especially to [John Hawthorn](https://github.com/jhawthorn)
and the rest of what was the Stembolt team.

Thanks to all financial contributors that help the ecosystem supporting the development of Solidus and its community via our [Open Collective page](https://opencollective.com/solidus).

This release couldn't be possible without you all!
