---
title: Solidus v3.1
date: 2021-09-10
tags: Solidus
author: Solidus Core Team
cover_image: /blog/2021/09/10/solidus-v3-1/solidus_v3_1.jpg
---

- <a class="button" href="https://github.com/solidusio/solidus/releases/tag/v3.1.0">3.1.0 on GitHub</a>
- <a class="button button-secondary" href="https://rubygems.org/gems/solidus/versions/3.1.0">3.1.0 on RubyGems</a>

We've just released Solidus `v3.1.0`!

Thanks to all contributors, testers, and users who made this release possible.

This version's support will end in 18 months: 2023-03-10.

## What's next?

For the next minor release (3.2.0), we plan to make huge changes to the Event Bus, in order to provide
a solid architecture with a set of tools that will help developers use this feature. We are planning
to release a new adapter along with the current one, to allow Solidus' users some time to switch, which
could require some code change in the host applications.

The main features of the new Event Bus Adapter are:

- Isolation from `ActiveSupport::Notification`.
- Better observability for event-generated flows.
- Better testability.
- More robust events registration.

## What changed on Solidus 3.1

Here's what changed in the last released version. If you have any trouble updating or you want to leave
some feedback, please use [this GitHub Discussion](https://github.com/solidusio/solidus/discussions/4161).

### Major changes

**`Spree.load_defaults`: preference defaults depending on the Solidus version**

Solidus 3.1 brings a new feature where preference defaults can take different
values depending on a specified Solidus version. It makes it possible to stop
deprecating old defaults every time we introduce a change in the recommended
value for a setting. After all, they're just that; recommendations. Instead,
now users can explicitly ask for a given Solidus version defaults and, as
before, override the preferences they want.

When upgrading to 3.1, you have to take action to adopt the new behavior.
You'll need to add `Spree.load_defaults('3.1')` on the very top of your
`spree.rb` initializer. As we're not changing any preference default on this
release, nothing will break. A warning will be emitted on boot-up until you do
it!

However, bumping the version given to `load_defaults` straight away for future
upgrades will not be a safe option. Instead, you'll have to go through the new
update process detailed below.

Take a look at [#4064](https://github.com/solidusio/solidus/pull/4064) for more information.

**New update process**

As aforementioned, preference defaults can change after a Solidus release. Once
you have your defaults locked to the current Solidus version, a new upgrade
won't break your application because of them. However, it's a good idea to
adapt your application to the updated recommended settings. To help with this
process, Solidus comes with a generator that you can execute like this:

```bash
bin/rails g solidus:update
```

That generator will create a new initializer called `new_solidus_defaults.rb`,
which will preview all the defaults that have changed between versions, each on
a commented line. From that point, you can activate the new defaults one by one
and adapt your application incrementally. Once you're done with all of them,
you can bump the version given to `Spree.load_defaults` in the `spree.rb`
initializer and remove the `new_solidus_defaults.rb` initializer altogether.

You can read in more detail about [this process on our
guides](https://guides.solidus.io/getting-started/upgrading-solidus#updating-preferences).

On [#4087](https://github.com/solidusio/solidus/pull/4087) you can find more.

**Other important changes**

`Spree::Price#amount` field can no longer be `nil`. Besides adding the
validation at the model layer, we ship with a task that will remove records
where the amount is `NULL` in the database. You should run the task before
executing the new migrations:

```ruby
bin/rails solidus:delete_prices_with_nil_amount
bin/rails railties:install:migrations
bin/rails db:migrate
```

If you're running migrations automatically on deploy, you should run the task
before rolling out the new code. In that case, you first should make sure that
you have affected records:

```ruby
Spree::Price.where(amount: nil).any?
```

If the above code returns `false`, you don't need to do anything else.
Otherwise, copy [the
task](https://github.com/solidusio/solidus/blob/master/core/lib/tasks/solidus/delete_prices_with_nil_amount.rake)
into your code, and deploy & execute it. Another option is to execute it
manually in your console in production. However, be extremely careful when
doing that!! :warning: :warning: :warning:

```ruby
Spree::Price.where(amount: nil).delete_all
```

Take a look at PR [#3987](https://github.com/solidusio/solidus/pull/3987) for more details.

### Other Changes

But there's also a lot of other stuff in this release! If you want to see the full list of the
changes made, plase take a look at the project's [CHANGELOG on GitHub](https://github.com/solidusio/solidus/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md).

