---
title: Solidus v3.2
date: 2022-08-18
tags: Solidus
author: Solidus Core Team
cover_image: /blog/2022/08/18/solidus/v3/2/cover.jpg
---

- <a class="button" href="https://github.com/solidusio/solidus/releases/tag/v3.2.0">3.2.0 on GitHub</a>
- <a class="button button-secondary" href="https://rubygems.org/gems/solidus/versions/3.2.0">3.2.0 on RubyGems</a>

We've just released Solidus `v3.2.0`!

Thanks to all contributors, testers, and users who made this release possible.

This version's support will end in 18 months: 2024-02-18.

## What's next?

We're listening to developers all around the globe to make Solidus the best
e-commerce platform for you. That makes us aware of the areas we need to
improve, so expect a lot of work in:

- Making extensions first-class in the Solidus ecosystem.
- Improving the design of our core logic with a better service layer.
- Writing the documentation that you need to read.

## What changed on Solidus 3.2

Here's what changed in the last released version. If you have any trouble updating or you want to leave
some feedback, please use [this GitHub Discussion](https://github.com/solidusio/solidus/discussions/4161).

### Major changes

#### New Event Bus

A completely new Event Bus has been introduced. It has better support for async
subscribers, testability, observability, and many other features. It's been
developed as a separated gem, [omnes](https://github.com/nebulab/omnes). Check
its README for everything it supports!

Don't forget to consult the [upgrade guide from the legacy event system to
omnes](https://edgeguides.solidus.io/customization/subscribing-to-events#upgrading-from-the-legacy-event-system).

While the legacy event system is still supported, it'll be removed on Solidus
v4.

#### New Solidus' starter frontend

For fresh Solidus applications, we now recommend you use
[solidus_starter_frontend](https://github.com/solidusio/solidus_starter_frontend).

solidus_frontend will be removed from the solidus meta-package gem in Solidus
v4. Furthermore, its code has been extracted from
https://github.com/solidusio/solidus to
https://github.com/solidusio/solidus_frontend. Once removed, you'll need to
explicitly add `solidus_frontend` to your Gemfile in order to continue using
it.

Meanwhile, the Solidus installer allows you to choose which one you want to use
as the storefront.

#### New guides

The guides that used to live at `solidusio/solidus` have been deprecated. You
can still find them at https://github.com/solidusio/legacy-guides, but a great
effort is in progress to make first-class documentation on
https://github.com/solidusio/edgeguides.

You can check them live in https://edgeguides.solidus.io/.

### Other important changes

#### No more autoload of decorators in fresh applications

New Solidus applications won't autoload files matching `app/**/*_decorator*.rb`
pattern anymore. For previous Solidus applications, it's something that will
keep working as the responsible code was added to your `config/application.rb`
when Solidus was installed. That code is intended to work with Rails' classic
autoloader, deprecated on Rails 6 and removed on Rails 7. It keeps working
because of a [compatibility
layer](https://github.com/rails/rails/blob/296ef7a17221e81881e38b51aa2b014d7a28bac5/activesupport/lib/active_support/dependencies/require_dependency.rb)
which is also deprecated. However, it may be eventually removed, so you're
better off updating your `application.rb`  file. You should substitute:

```ruby
config.to_prepare do
  Dir.glob(Rails.root.join('app/**/*_decorator*.rb')) do |path|
    require_dependency(path)
  end
end
```

With:

```ruby
overrides = "#{Rails.root}/app/overrides" # use your actual directory here
Rails.autoloaders.main.ignore(overrides)
config.to_prepare do
  Dir.glob("#{overrides}/**/*_decorator*.rb").each do |override|
    load override
  end
end
```

You may also want to stop using the `decorator` naming, as it's no longer part
of Solidus recommendations (that files are monkey patches; they don't use the
[decorator pattern](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Decorator_pattern)). E.g.,
you can place those files in `app/overrides/` and remove the `decorator`
suffix.

#### Changes to the promotion system

Promotions with a `match_policy` of `any` are deprecated. If you have promotions
with such a match policy, try running the following rake task:

```bash
bin/rake solidus:split_promotions_with_any_match_policy
```

This will create separate promotions for each of the rules of your promotions with `any`
match policy, which should have the same outcome for customers.

Creating new promotions with `any` match policy is turned off by default. If you still want
to create promotions like that (knowing they will not be supported in the future), you can
set a temporary flag in your `config/initializers/spree.rb` file:

```ruby
# Allow creating new promotions with an `any` match policy. Unsupported in the future.
config.allow_promotions_any_match_policy = true
```

#### Static preference sources configured within `.to_prepare` blocks

[Rails 7 no longer supports referring autoloadable classes within an
initializer](https://guides.rubyonrails.org/autoloading_and_reloading_constants.html#autoload-on-boot-and-on-each-reload).

Because of that, we need to change the way we configure static preference sources.

Before:

```ruby
# config/initializers/spree.rb
Spree.config do |config|
  config.static_model_preferences.add(
    AmazingStore::AmazingPaymentMethod,
    'amazing_payment_method_credentials',
    credentials: ENV['AMAZING_PAYMENT_METHOD_CREDENTIALS'],
    server: Rails.env.production? ? 'production' : 'test',
    test_mode: !Rails.env.production?
  )
end
```

Now:

```ruby
# config/initializers/spree.rb
Rails.application.config.to_prepare do
  Spree::Config.static_model_preferences.add(
    AmazingStore::AmazingPaymentMethod,
    'amazing_payment_method_credentials',
    credentials: ENV['AMAZING_PAYMENT_METHOD_CREDENTIALS'],
    server: Rails.env.production? ? 'production' : 'test',
    test_mode: !Rails.env.production?
  )
end
```

### Other Changes

But there's also a lot of other stuff in this release! If you want to see the full list of the
changes made, plase take a look at the project's [CHANGELOG on GitHub](https://github.com/solidusio/solidus/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md).
